>> MY CREDIBILITY'S NOT ON THE
LINE.
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY'S
CREDIBILITY IS ON THE LINE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TOOK HIS CASE OVERSEAS TODAY, TO
BOLSTER SUPPORT FOR A MILITARY
STRIKE ON SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, A KEY
SENATE COMMITTEE BACKED THE USE
OF FORCE.
WE TALK WITH WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR TONY
BLINKEN AND REPUBLICAN SENATOR
DEB FISCHER OF NEBRASKA.
>> I HAVE MANY CONCERNS.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE
CONSEQUENCES OF ANY ACTION THAT
WE TAKE IN SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: THEN, AL QAEDA'S
FIGHT AGAINST AMERICAN DRONES
AND THE "BLACK BUDGET" BEHIND
U.S. INTELLIGENCE.
WE EXAMINE THE LATEST
REVELATIONS FROM THE CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION LEAKED BY EDWARD
SNOWDEN.
>> Ifill: ROUGHLY ONE OUT OF
EVERY SIX NEW YORKERS IS OVER
65.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS ON
EFFORTS TO MAKE THE BIG APPLE A
LILE MTTORE AGE-FRIENDLY.
>> Woodruff: AND ARE COLLEGES
TOO FOCUSED ON CAREER TRAINING?
JEFFREY BROWN SITS DOWN WITH THE
AUTHOR OF THE NEW BOOK "WHY
TEACH?"
THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON TONIGHT'S
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA BEGAN
A TRIP TO EUROPE TODAY FOR AN
ECONOMIC SUMMIT, BUT SYRIA
STAYED AT THE TOP OF HIS AGENDA.
THE ADMINISTRATION'S PUSH FOR
MILITARY ACTION ADVANCED IN
CONGRESS EVEN AS THE PRESIDENT
ISSUED A NEW APPEAL TO THE
WORLD.
>> MY CREDIBILITY'S NOT ON THE
LINE.
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY'S
CREDIBILITY IS ON THE LINE.
>> Ifill: ARRIVING IN STOCKHOLM
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT IMMEDIATELY
MOVED TO TURN UP THE PRESSURE ON
POTENTIAL ALLIES, AND HE
DEFENDED HIS YEAR-OLD STATEMENT,
SAYING SYRIA SHOULD NOT CROSS A
"RED LINE" BY USING CHEMICAL
WEAPONS IN ITS ONGOING CIVIL
WAR.
>> FIRST OF ALL, I DIDN'T SET A
RED LINE.
THE WORLD SET A RED LINE.
THE WORLD SET A RED LINE WHEN
GOVERNMENTS REPRESENTING 98% OF
THE WORLD'S POPULATION SAID THE
USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS ARE
ABHORRENT AND PASSED A TREATY
FORBIDDING THEIR USE EVEN WHEN
COUNTRIES ARE ENGAGED IN WAR.
>> Ifill: SYRIA NEVER SIGNED THE
1993 INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, BUT MR. OBAMA
INSISTED BASHAR ASSAD'S
GOVERNMENT MUST NOT BE ALLOWED
TO ACT WITH IMPUNITY.
INSTEAD, HE APPEALED AGAIN FOR
RUSSIA-- A MAJOR ALLY OF THE
ASSAD REGIME-- TO STOP BLOCKING
U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL ACTION ON
SYRIA.
>> I THINK THAT INTERNATIONAL
ACTION WOULD BE MUCH MORE
EFFECTIVE, AND, ULTIMATELY, WE
CAN END DEATHS MUCH MORE RAPIDLY
IF RUSSIA TAKES A DIFFERENT
APPROACH TO THESE PROBLEMS.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT HEADS TO
ST. PETERSBURG, RUSSIA, FOR A G-
20 MEETING THIS WEEK, BUT, IN
MOSCOW, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN DISMISSED THE
U.S. APPEAL.
HE WARNED THE WEST HAS NO RIGHT
TO INITIATE MILITARY ACTION
WITHOUT U.N. SUPPORT.
>> ( translated ): I DO NOT
EXCLUDE THIS, BUT I WOULD LIKE
TO DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO ONE
ABSOLUTELY KEY ASPECT.
ONLY THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
COULD SANCTION THE USE OF FORCE
AGAINST A SOVEREIGN STATE.
ANY OTHER PRETEXT OR METHOD
CAN ONLY BE INTERPRETED AS AN
AGGRESSION.
>> Ifill: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S POLICY PASSED
ITS FIRST TEST IN CONGRESS.
THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS
COMMITTEE APPROVED A RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING THE LIMITED USE OF
FORCE, BUT IT BARS ANY
DEPLOYMENT OF AMERICAN COMBAT
TROOPS.
REPUBLICAN JOHN McCAIN WON
APPROVAL OF AN AMENDMENT THAT
ALSO ADVOCATES A BROADER
STRATEGY OF STRENGTHENING THE
SYRIAN REBELS.
>> I FEEL IN THE STRONGEST TERMS
THAT WE NEED TO HAVE THAT
PROVISION THAT CALLS FOR
REVERSAL OF MOMENTUM ON THE
GROUND BATTLE AGAINST BASHAR
ASSAD.
IF BASHAR ASSAD REMAINS IN AN
ADVANTAGEOUS POSITION, HE WILL
NEVER LEAVE SYRIA.
HE HAS TO KNOW THAT HE IS
LOSING, AND THAT WAY YOU GET A
NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT FOR HIS
DEPARTURE.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S COMMITTEE
ACTION MARKED THE FIRST VOTE
APPROVING MILITARY STRIKES SINCE
OCTOBER 2002, WHEN CONGRESS
AUTHORIZED THE INVASION OF IRAQ.
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
CAPITOL, THE HOUSE FOREIGN
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE HEARD FROM
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY,
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
AND GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF.
ANTI-WAR PROTESTERS WAVED HANDS
PAINTED RED, SIMULATING BLOOD,
AS KERRY SPOKE.
>> THERE ARE RISKS OF ACTING,
BUT BELIEVE ME IT IS OUR
JUDGMENT COLLECTIVELY AND THE
PRESIDENT'S THAT THE GREATER
RISKS ARE NOT ACTING.
WE WILL HAVE SAID TO HIM,
"NOBODY CARES, GAS YOUR PEOPLE,
YOU DO WHAT YOU NEED TO TO STAY
IN OFFICE" AND BACK OFF.
THAT WOULD BE... I HONESTLY FIND
THAT THAT WOULD BE ONE OF THOSE
MOMENTS THAT WILL LIVE IN
INFAMY.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT
REAFFIRMED HIS DESIRE FOR
CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT IN HIS
STOCKHOLM APPEARANCE TODAY, BUT
HE SUGGESTED A "NO" VOTE WOULD
NOT TIE HIS HANDS.
>> AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF, I
ALWAYS PRESERVE THE RIGHT AND
THE RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT ON
BEHALF OF AMERICA'S NATIONAL
SECURITY.
I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT I WAS
REQUIRED TO TAKE THIS TO
CONGRESS, BUT I DID NOT TAKE
EHIS TO CONGRESS JUST BECAUS
IT'S AN EMPTY EXERCISE.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO HAVE
CONGRESS' SUPPORT ON IT.
>> Ifill: IN PARIS, THE FRENCH
PARLIAMENT BEGAN ITS OWN DEBATE
ON A MILITARY RESPONSE AS THE
PRIME MINISTER ECHOED THE
WARNINGS FROM WASHINGTON.
>> ( translated ): TO NOT ACT
WOULD BE TO PUT IN DANGER PEACE
AND SECURITY IN THE ENTIRE
REGION, BUT, ALSO BEYOND THAT,
OUR OWN SECURITY.
I ASK THE QUESTION, WHAT
CREDIBILITY WOULD OUR
INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENTS HAVE
AGAINST NON-PROLIFERATION OF
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION
INCLUDING NUCLEAR WEAPONS?
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, THE
FIGHTING IN SYRIA CONTINUED,
UNAFFECTED BY DEBATES AROUND THE
GLOBE.
REBELS AND REGIME FORCES ENGAGED
IN HEAVY GUN BATTLES ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF DAMASCUS.
>> Woodruff: NOW A VIEW FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE.
TONY BLINKEN IS PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISER.
I SPOKE WITH HIM A SHORT TIME
AGO.
BLI, THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
LET ME JUST START BY ASKING IF
YOU YOU THINK THE ADMINISTRATION
WILL HAVE THE VOTES IT NEEDS IN
CONGRESS TO TAKE MILITARY
ACTION.
>> JUDY, I DO.
LOOK AT WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF DAYS.
YESTERDAY, WE SAW THE EMERGENCE
OF STRONG BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR
THIS AUTHORIZATION.
WE HAD SPEAKER BOEHNER.
WE HAD LEADER CANTOR.
LEADER PELOSI IN THE HOUSE.
WE HAVE A STRONG BIPARTISAN
GROUP IN THE SENATE, INCLUDING
THE LEADERS OF THE SENATE
FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE,
SENATOR MONDAY, AND SENATOR
CORKER.
AND JUST TODAY, WE HAVE THE
PASSAGE IN THE SENATE FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF OUR
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE USE
OF FORCE.
SO THE MOMENTUM IS THERE, AND I
THINK WE'RE HEADING IN EXACTLY
THAT DIRECTION.
>> Woodruff: TONY, IN AN
INTERVIEW WITH THE "NEWSHOUR"
LAST WEEK, THE PRESIDENT SAID
THE MAIN POINT OF ANY MILITARY
STRIKE WOULD BE TO PUNISH AND
DETER THE ASSAD REGIME.
NOW, THOUGH WE HEAR SENATORS
McCAIN AND GRAHAM SAYING IN
THEIR CONVERSATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT, HE'S TALKING ABOUT
DEGRADING THE CAPABILITIES OF
THE ASSAD REGIME.
THAT'S GOING A STEP FURTHER,
ISN'T IT?
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN TO DEGRADE?
>> JUDY THERE ARE TWO THINGS
GOING ON HERE THAT ARE IMPORTANT
TO UNDERSTAND.
WITH REGARD TO THE UNDERLYING
CONFLICT IN SYRIA, THERE HAS
BEEN A CIVIL WAR GOING OAS YOU
KNOW.
AND WE'VE BEEN WORKING VERY HARD
TO END THAT WAR AND WE THINK THE
BEST WAY TO DO THAT IS THROUGH A
NEGOTIATING TRANSITION THAT
MOVES ASSAD OUT THROUGH A
POLITICAL PROCESS.
IN ORDER TO DO THAT, WE'VE GOT
TO GET HIM TO THE NEGOTIATING
TABLE AND THAT INVOLVES, IN
PART, PUTTING THE PRESSURE ON
HIM, ISOLATING HIM, AND BILLION
UP THE OPPOSITION, WHICH WE'VE
BEEN DOING IN RECENT MONTHS, AS
WELL AS HAVING A DIPLOMATIC
TRACK.
AND THERE WE WILL BE, I THINK,
DOING MORE TO SUPPORT OPPOSITION
AS THEY TRY AND CONVINCE ASSAD
THAT HE NEEDS TO NEGOTIATE AN
END TO THIS.
WITHIN THAT, WE HAVE THIS
TERRIBLE CHEMICAL WEAPONS ATTACK
OF AUGUST 21.
AND WE BELIEVE THAT IT'S
IMPERATIVE THAT WE RESPOND TO
THAT BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN A NORM
AGAINST THE USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS FOR NEARLY 100 YEARS.
IF WE ALLOW THIS TO GO
UNCHECKED, ASSAD WILL CONTINUE
TO DO IT WITH IMPUNITY.
OTHER COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD
AND IN THE REGION WHO HAVE
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION OR
SEEK TO ACQUIRE THEM WILL
CONCLUDE THEY CAN USE THEM WITH
IMPUNITY.
THE ACTION WE'RE PROPOSING WOULD
BE FOCUSED ON THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AND MAKING SURE THAT
ASSAD IS DETERRED FROM USING
THEM AGAIN, AND THAT HIS ABILITY
TO USE THEM AGAIN IS DEGRADED,
AND THAT'S WHAT THIS IS FOCUSED
ON.
NOW, IT'S ALSO TRUE IN ANY
ACTION WE TAKE, ASSAD IS VERY
LIKELY TO CONCLUDE THINGS HE
HOLDS DEAR ARE AT RISK, AND IN
THAT SENSE, HE'S LIKELY TO HAVE
A GREATER INCENTIVE TO WANT TO
NEGOTIATE AN END TO THIS
UNDERLYING CONFLICT.
>> Woodruff: SO IN OTHER
WORDS, IN ADDITION TO PUNISHING,
YOU WANT TO WEAKEN THE ASSAD
REGIME, MAKE IT EASIER FOR THE
OPPOSITION TO TAKE OVER THE
GOVERNMENT.
>> SO, THE FOCUS OF THIS
MILITARY EFFORT THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING IS LIMITED AND FOCUSED
ON HIS CHEMICAL WEAPONS
CAPABILITY AND IT'S TO DETER
HIM, TO TELL HIM DON'T DO IT
AGAIN BUT IT'S ALSO TO MAKE IT A
LOT HARDER TO DO IT AGAIN IF HE
MAKES THE MISTAKE OF TRYING TO
DO IT AGAIN.
BUT IN THAT CONTEXT, HE'S ALSO
GOING TO LEARN THAT THINGS THAT
ARE IMPORTANT TO HIM MILITARILY
ARE AT RISK, AND THAT CAN HAVE
THE EFFECT OF CONVINCING HIM
THAT HE NEED TO NEGOTIATE AN END
TO THE UNDERLYING CONFLICT AS
WELL.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IN TERMS OF
HELPING THE REBELS, WE KNOW
THERE WAS A VERY PROMINENT NEWS
REPORT YESTERDAY THAT MILITARY
LETHAL AID HAD NOT YET REACHED
THE OPPOSITION.
NOW WE'RE HEARING THAT IT MAY BE
CLOSE TO REACHING THE
OPPOSITION.
CAN YOU TELL US WHETHER IT HAS
AT THIS POINT, AND IF NOT, IS IT
ABOUT TO?
>> SO, JUDY, A NUMBER OF
COUNTRIES HAVE BEEN PROVIDING
ASSISTANCE TO THE OPPOSITION,
INCLUDING THE UNITED STATES.
AND SOME MONTHS AGO, YOU'LL
RECALL, THAT WHEN OUR
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY CONCLUDED
INITIALLY THAT ASSAD HAD BEEN
USING ON A SMALL SCALE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS OVER THE PAST YEAR, THE
PRESIDENT SAID THAT WE WOULD BE
INCREASING OUR SUPPORT TO THE
OPPOSITION.
AND WE'VE SPENT SOME TIME
PUTTING IN PLACE AN EFFORT TO DO
JUST THAT.
AND WHAT I CAN TELL YOU NOW
WITHOUT DETAILING ANY OF THE
SUPPORT IS THAT WE HAVE MOVED
OUT ON THAT.
>> Woodruff: SO LETHAL AID HAS
REACHED THE OPPOSITION, IS
REACHING IT NOW?
>> SO, JUDY, WHAT I CAN SAY IS
WITHOUT DETAILING THE KIND OF
ASSISTANCE WE'RE PROVIDING IFS
WE HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED
THE ASSISTANCE THAT IS GETTING
TO THE OPPOSITION.
>> Woodruff: GLOOD HOW LONG DO
YOU ANY ANY CAMPAIGN STRIKE
AGAINST THE ASSAD REGIME WILL
TAKE.
THE REASON SKI IS WE KNOW IN
STRIKING KOSOVO MANY YEARS AGO,
THE CLT ADMINISTRATION SPOKE
ABOUT IT LASTING A FEW DAYS.
20 ON FOR SOMETHING LIKE 72
DAYS.
ONCE SOMETHING LIKE THIS GET
STARTED, HOW DO YOU KNOW YOU CAN
PUT AN END TO IT?
>> JUDY, IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT PEOPLE UNDERSTAND WHAT THIS
IS AND WHAT THIS ISN'T.
AND IT'S UNDERSTANDABLE THAT
PEOPLE HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT THIS
BEING SOME KIND OF OPEN-ENDED
POTENTIAL ACTION.
IT IS NOT.
THE REASON PEOPLE TEND TO HAVE
THAT AS AN INITIAL REACTION IS
THEY ARE LOOK AT THIS THROUGH
THE FRAME OF THE LAST DECADE, A
WAR IN IRAQ, A WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN, HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF AMERICAN TROOPS
COMMITTED.
WELL, WHAT THIS IS IS A VERY
TARGETED, VERY FOCUSED,
TIME-LIMITED ACTION TO DETER
ASSAD FROM USING CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AGAIN, AND TO MAKE IT
HARDER FOR HIM TO DO SO.
WHAT IT IS NOT IS OPEN-ENDED.
IT IS NOT BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
IT IS NOT IRAQ.
IT IS NOT AFGHANISTAN.
IT'S NOT KOSOVO.
IT'S NOT EVEN LIBYA.
I CAN'T BE ANY MORE PRECISE THAN
THAT, BUT IT IS VAR LIMITED,
TARGETED ACTION, BUT AN
EFFECTIVE ONE TO DEAL WITH THE
USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> Woodruff: AND IS THE
ADMINISTRATION PREPARED FOR
UNINTENDED CONS QEBSES?
THE SYRIAN FOREIGN MINISTER IS
SAYING TODAY THERE'S NO WAY OF
KNOWING WHAT WILL BE THE
REPERCUSSIONS OF A U.S. STRIKE.
HE TALKS ABOUT SYRIA STRIKING
BACK AT TURKEY, AT ISRAEL, AND
AT LEBANON, IF THE U.S. HIT HIS
COUNTRY.
>> WE ARE VERY WELL PREPARED.
WE KNOW THAT ANY ACTION HAS
RISK, ANY ACTION CAN HAVE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES.
WE DO A LOT OF WORK TO MAKE SURE
WE ANTICIPATE WHAT THOSE MIGHT
BE AND TO TAKE STEPS TO MITIGATE
THEM.
BUT WE ALSO BELIEVE
FUNDAMENTALLY THAT NOT ACTING
WOULD HAVE FAR GREATER AND FAR
GRIEVER CONSEQUENCES.
IF WE DON'T ACT TO ENFORCE A
NORM OF THE USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS THAT HAS BEEN AROUND FOR
NEARLY 100 YEARS THAT CONGRESS
HAS GOTTEN STRONGLY BEHIND OVER
THE LAST DECADE, IF WE DON'T DO
THAT, ASSAD WILL CONCLUDE HE CAN
USE THESE WEAPONS AGAIN WITH
IMPUNITY.
OTHER COUNTRIES WHO HAVE SUCH
WEAPONS OR ASPIRE TO GET THEM
WILL ALSO CONCLUDE THEY CAN
ACQUIRE THEM ANDUE THEM WITH
IMPUNITY.
THAT WILL DO TERRIBLE DAMAGE TO
OUR SECURITY AND THE SECURITY OF
OTHER COUNTRIES AROUND THE
WORLD.
THERE ARE ALWAYS DANGERS IN
ACTING, WE DO WHAT WE CAN TO
MITIGATE THEM.
>> Woodruff: THE TOP SECURITY
ADVISERS ARE RECOMMENDING THE
PRESIDENT CUT OFF AID TO THE
EGYPTIAN MILITARY.
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN RETALIATION FOR THE REMOVAL
OF THE MORSI PRESIDENCY.
IS THAT THE CASE?
IS THAT WHAT YOU AND OTHERS ARE
RECOMMENDING TO THE PRESIDENT?
>> SO, JUDY, WE KNOW THAT AFTER
WHAT HAPPENED IN EGYPT, AS THE
PRESIDENT HAS SAID, IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE BUSINESS AS USUAL.
AND IN THE WAKE OF THE VIOLENCE
THAT WE SAW AFTER MORSI WAS
PUSHED OUT OF POWER, WE
SUSPENDED THE DELIVERY OF
F-16s.
WE SUSPENDED A MAJOR MILITARY
EXR SIZE.
AND THE REST OF OUR ASSISTANCE
IS UNDER REVIEW.
WE ALSO HAVE A STRONG INCENTIVE
TO ENCOURAGE THE EGYPTIANS TO
GET ON A DEMOCRATIC TRACK, TO
HAVE AN INCLUSIVE PROCESS THAT
BRINGS AN INCLUSIVE GOVERNMENT
INTO POWER, AND WE'RE WORKING
WITH THEM ON THAT.
BEYOND THAT, AT THIS POINT, ALL
I CAN TELL YOU IS WE LOOK AT
THIS ON A REGULAR BASIS AND
WE'VE ALREADY TAKEN STEPS TO
SUSPEND SOME OF OUR ASSISTANCE.
>> Woodruff: TONY BLINKEN, THE
DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER
TO PRESIDENT OBAMA, THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME, JUDY.
>> NEXT A VIEW FROM THE SENATE.
LAST NIGHT I TALKED WITH
MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT CARL LEVIN.
TONIGHT WE SPEAK WITH "FISHER V.
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS."
WE SPOKE EARLIER THIS FNGS.
>> TONIGHT, WHERE DO YOU STAND
ON THE PRESIDENT'S REQUEST FOR A
WAR AUTHORIZATION?
>> I HAVE MANY CONCERNS.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE
CONSEQUENCES OF ANY ACTION THAT
WE TAKE IN SYRIA.
WE NEED TO KNOW WHAT THE
STRATEGY IS, WHAT'S THE MISSION,
WHAT ARE THE GOALS, BOTH LONG
TERM AND SHORT TERM.
TERM.
>> Ifill: YOU KNOW, THE
PROCESS WAS IN STOCKHOLM TODAY
AS I'M SURE YOU'RE AWARE.
ONE OF THE THINGS HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT IS IT'S NOT HIS
CREDIBILITY ON THE LINE, IT'S
THE WORLD'S CREDIBILITY,
CONGRESS' CREDIBILITY BHAP DO
YOU THINK ABOUT THAT, WHOSE
CREDIBILITY, IF ANYBODY'S, WAS
ON THE LINE.
>> I WAS PRETTY SURPRISED BY HIS
COMMENT.
IT WAS THE PRESIDENT WHO DREW
THAT LINE.
IT'S THE PRESIDENT'S
CREDIBILITY.
HE'S NOW COME TO THE UNITED
STATES CONGRESS AND WE'LL BE
LOOKING AT HIS MISSION, AS HE'S
GOING TO DEFINE IT.
BUT I THINK IT IS HIS
CREDIBILITY.
HE NEEDS TO MAKE THE CASE, AND
HE NEEDS TO MAKE IT TO THE
PEOPLE OF THIS COUNTRY.
I'D LIKE TO SEE THE PRESIDENT
HAVE A MEETING, HAVE A PRESS
CONFERENCE IN THE OVAL OFFICE,
HAVE AN ADDRESS, AND LAY THIS
OUT, LAY OUT THE MISSION, LAY
OUT THE GOALS.
THE PEOPLE OF THIS COUNTRY TRULY
UNDERSTAND THAT THEY'RE
WAR-WISE.
THEY'RE NOT JUST WAR WEARY.
MARTHA RADDATZ SAID THAT ON A
SUNDAY PROGRAM AND I THINK IT'S
VERY INSIGHTFUL.
THE NEBRASKANS I TALK TO
UNDERSTAND WAR.
THEY UNDERSTAND WAR IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
WE'VE BEEN THERE.
WE'VE DONE IT.
WE KNOW WHAT'S COMING.
SO THE PRESIDENT HAS TO MAKE
THINGS TH CASE.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT CONGRESS AND THE SENATE IN
PARTICULAR IS TRYING TO DO TO
MAKE THIS WAR AUTHORIZATION FIT.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE A GOLDILOCKS--
TOO HOT, TOO COLD CHOICE-- IN
THIS CASE WHETHER IT'S TOO
BROAD, WHETHER YOU END UP WITH
BOOTS ON THE GROUND AND INVOLVED
IN A CIVIL WAR, OR TOOINAREE, A
LIMITED STRIKE THAT DOESN'T
ACCOMPLISH MUCH.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE
GREATEST CONCERN IN TRYING TO
STRIKE THAT BALANCE?
>> I THINK THE GREATEST CONCERN
IS TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THE
MISSION IS.
I'VE SAID THAT BEFORE.
WE CAN HAVE A NARROW STRIKE.
BUT THEN IS THAT A SHOT ACROSS
THE BOW?
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
LET'S DEFINE THAT.
LET'S DEFINE WHAT THE
SUBMISSION.
THERE'S A LOT OF UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES OUT THERE.
I'VE BEEN IN THAT REGION TWICE
NOW.
I'VE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO MEET
WITH OFFICIALS WITH THE
JORDANIAN GOVERNMENT.
THEY HAVE MANY, MANY CONCERNS
GOING FORWARD.
SO THIS JUST DOESN'T AFFECT US
AS A COUNTRY.
IT AFFECTS OUR ALLIES AS WELL.
IT AFFECTS THIS ENTIRE REGION.
IT AFFECTS THE WORLD.
AGAIN, THE PRESIDENT HAS TO MAKE
A CASE.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT, THE
SECRETARY OF STATE, AND THE
LATEST DRAFTS IN THESE
RESOLUTIONS HAVE ALL MADE THE
POINT THERE WOULD BE NO U.S.
BOOTS ON THE GROUND IN ANY KIND
OF ENTERPRISE IN SYRIA.
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
IS THAT TAKING IT TOO FAR?
>> I THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DON'T WANT TO SEE BOOTS ON THE
GROUND.
AS I SAID, WE'VE BEEN IN THE
CONFLICTS IN THAT REGION BEFORE.
WE'RE NOT READY TO GO BACK.
WE NEED TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THE
RAMIFICATIONS ARE.
WE CAN SAY NO BOOTS ON THE
GROUND, BUT WHAT IF ASSAD USES
CHEMICAL WEAPONS AGAIN?
HOW DO WE RESPOND?
IT'S HAPPENED 14 TIMES.
WE'RE JUST RESPONDING NOW.
THE BRITISH PRIME MINISTER SAID
THIS HAS HAPPENED 14 TIMES.
SO WHY ARE WE JUST RESPONDING
NOW?
THAT'S A QUESTION THAT NEEDS TO
BE ANSWERED AS WELL.
>> Ifill: SO THERE IS-- AS YOU
TRY TO FIGURE THAT OUT, WHY IT
DIDN'T HAPPEN BEFORE, HAVE YOU
RULED OUT IN YOUR MIND THAT IT
SHOULD HAPPEN NOW?
>> YOU KNOW, I HAVEN'T RULED OUT
ANYTHING.
WE'RE LEARNING MORE AND MORE
EVERY DAY.
WE JUST HEARD FROM THE SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE, SECRETARY HAGEL
TODAY, THAT THE RUSSIANS ARE
SUPPLYING CHEMICAL WEAPONS TO
SYRIA.
WE DIDN'T KNOW THAT BEFORE.
I'VE GONE THROUGH TWO CONFERENCE
CALLS, BRIEFINGS.
I WENT THROUGH A BRIEFING WITH
THE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
THIS MORNING.
WE JUST HEARD THAT TODAY.
SO WHAT ELSE DON'T WE KNOW?
IF THE RUSSIANS ARE INVOLVED IN
THIS, ARE THEY SUPPLYING THE
SYRIANS WITH WITH CHEMICAL
WEAPONS, AND WHAT CONSEQUENCES
ARCONSEQUENCESARE WE GOING TO ST
ACTION?
HOW ARE THEY GOING TO RESPOND IF
WE GO IN AND ATTACK SYRIA.
>> Ifill: HOW IMPORTANT IF
THIS RESOLUTION IS GRANTED IS IT
TO TO YOU THAT THE PRESIDENT AT
SOME DATE CONCERN COME BACK TO
CONGRESS?
>> AS I SAID, THE PRESIDENT
NEEDS TO TALK TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
LET'S HAVE THAT ADDRESS FROM THE
OVAL OFFICE, HAVE HIM LAY OUT
HIS CASE.
WE'RE GETTING MORE AND MORE
INFORMATION IN BRIEFINGS, BUT
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE SO MANY
QUESTIONS ON THIS.
THEY NEED TO BE A PART OF THIS
DISCUSSION, TOO.
AND IT'S UP TO THE PRESIDENT TO
BE ABLE TO PUT THAT CASE
FORWARD.
>> Ifill: IS ONE OF THE
ANSWERS TO THE QUESTION FOR YOU
THAT PERHAPS THE ARAB LEAGUE OR
MORE ARAB NATIONS SHOULD BE
INVOLVED?
>> I'D LIKE TO SEE A NUMBER OF
OUR ALLIES STEP FORWARD.
WE'VE HEARD THAT THERE ARE A FEW
OUT THERE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE FRENCH ARE
GOING TO BE INVOLVED IN SOME
MANNER, BUT I HAVEN'T HEARD
DETAILS ON HOW THESE DIFFERENT
COUNTRIES ARE GOING TO BE
INVOLVED.
WE AREN'T GETTING SUPPORT FROM
THE UNITED NATIONS.
OUR VERY RELIABLE ALLIES, SUCH
WE AREN'T GETTING SUPPORT FROM
AS GREAT BRITAIN.
OUR VERY RELIABLE ALLIES, SUCH
AND WE NEED TO LOOK AT OTHER
AS GREAT BRITAIN.
SOLUTIONS THAT MAY BE OUT THERE.
AND WE NEED TO LOOK AT OTHER
AS I MENTIONED, WE HAVE THE
SOLUTIONS THAT MAY BE OUT THERE.
BRITISH PRIME MINISTER SAYING
AS I MENTIONED, WE HAVE THE
THAT THERE HAD BEEN 14 INSTANS
BRITISH PRIME MINISTER SAYING
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS USED BUT
THAT THERE HAD BEEN 14 INSTANS
THIS IS OUR RESPONSE TO THIS ON.
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS USED BUT
IT'S HORRIBLE.
THIS IS OUR RESPONSE TO THIS ON.
I'M NOT SAYING THAT IT ISN'T.
IT'S HORRIBLE.
WE'VE SEEN ABOUT 2,000 PEOPLE,
I'M NOT SAYING THAT IT ISN'T.
MANY OF THEM CHILDREN, THAT HAVE
WE'VE SEEN ABOUT 2,000 PEOPLE,
BEEN ATTACKED BY THEIR OWN
MANY OF THEM CHILDREN, THAT HAVE
GOVERNMENT AND DIED.
BEEN ATTACKED BY THEIR OWN
BUT WE HAVE SEEN OVER 100,000
GOVERNMENT AND DIED.
SYRIANS KILLED IN THIS CIVIL WAR
BUT WE HAVE SEEN OVER 100,000
OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS WITH NO
SYRIANS KILLED IN THIS CIVIL WAR
RESPONSE FROM THE
OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS WITH NO
ADMINISTRATION.
RESPONSE FROM THE
GLIESTLED DO YOU WORRY AT ALL,
ADMINISTRATION.
AS SOME OF YOUR COLLEAGUES
GLIESTLED DO YOU WORRY AT ALL,
APPEAR TO, THAT THERE IS A
AS SOME OF YOUR COLLEAGUES
POTENTIAL FOR RETALIATION FROM
APPEAR TO, THAT THERE IS A
OTHERS IN THE REGION AGAINST THE
POTENTIAL FOR RETALIATION FROM
U.S. SHOULD IT GET INVOLVED?
OTHERS IN THE REGION AGAINST THE
>> AS I SAID, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
U.S. SHOULD IT GET INVOLVED?
THE CONSEQUENCES OF ANY ACTION
>> AS I SAID, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
WE TAKE WILL BE.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF ANY ACTION
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
WE TAKE WILL BE.
RAMIFICATIONS WILL BE.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
SOMEBODY WILL RETALIATE.
RAMIFICATIONS WILL BE.
I WOULD ASK A QUESTION OF THE
SOMEBODY WILL RETALIATE.
ADMINISTRATION AND OF THE
I WOULD ASK A QUESTION OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE AND THE
ADMINISTRATION AND OF THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE IS HOW
SECRETARY OF STATE AND THE
EFFECTIVE ARE THESE SMALL
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE IS HOW
STRIKES?
EFFECTIVE ARE THESE SMALL
GIVE ME SOME EXAMPLES.
STRIKES?
GIVE ME SOME EXAMPLES IN WANT
GIVE ME SOME EXAMPLES.
PAST WHEN WE HAVE SEEN HOW
GIVE ME SOME EXAMPLES IN WANT
EFFECTIVE THAT THEY
PAST WHEN WE HAVE SEEN HOW
AGAIN, ARE WE GOING TO SEE
EFFECTIVE THAT THEY
RETALIATION AGAINST US OR
AGAIN, ARE WE GOING TO SEE
AGAINST OUR ALLIES BECAUSE OF
RETALIATION AGAINST US OR
THAT?
AGAINST OUR ALLIES BECAUSE OF
I'D LIKE TO HEAR SOME ANSWERS TO
THAT?
THOSE QUESTIONS.
I'D LIKE TO HEAR SOME ANSWERS TO
>> Ifill: SOME OF YOUR
THOSE QUESTIONS.
COLLEAGUES, SENATOR JOHN
>> Ifill: SOME OF YOUR
McCAIN AMONG THEM, AND THE
COLLEAGUES, SENATOR JOHN
HOUSE LEADERSHIP HAVE, SAID THAT
McCAIN AMONG THEM, AND THE
THEY BELIEVE THAT IF A
HOUSE LEADERSHIP HAVE, SAID THAT
RESOLUTION-- IF THE PRESIDENT'S
THEY BELIEVE THAT IF A
REQUEST FOR A WAR RESOLUTION, AN
RESOLUTION-- IF THE PRESIDENT'S
UNPRECEDENTED REJECTION WOULD
REQUEST FOR A WAR RESOLUTION, AN
OCCUR, THIS WOULD BE BAD FOR THE
UNPRECEDENTED REJECTION WOULD
NATION.
OCCUR, THIS WOULD BE BAD FOR THE
DO YOU THINK THAT WOULD BE TRUE?
NATION.
>> I THINK WHAT WOULD BE BAD FOR
DO YOU THINK THAT WOULD BE TRUE?
THE NATION IS TO BECOME
>> I THINK WHAT WOULD BE BAD FOR
EMBROILED IN A SITUATION IN THE
THE NATION IS TO BECOME
MIDDLE EAST AGAIN WHERE WE DON'T
EMBROILED IN A SITUATION IN THE
HAVE A CLEAR MISSION, WHERE WE
MIDDLE EAST AGAIN WHERE WE DON'T
DON'T HAVE A DEFINED GOAL.
HAVE A CLEAR MISSION, WHERE WE
>> Ifill: SENATOR DEBFISHER,
DON'T HAVE A DEFINED GOAL.
REPUBLICAN OF NEBRASKA, THANKS
>> Ifill: SENATOR DEBFISHER,
FOR JOINING US.
REPUBLICAN OF NEBRASKA, THANKS
TH>>ANK YOU.
FOR JOINING US.
>> Woodruff: SLL TTIO COME ON
TH>>ANK YOU.
THE NEWSHOUR: SECRETS REVEALED
>> Woodruff: SLL TTIO COME ON
BY THE SNOWDEN LEAKS; SENIORS
THE NEWSHOUR: SECRETS REVEALED
TAKE THE BIG APPLE; AND
BY THE SNOWDEN LEAKS; SENIORS
FOSTERING A LOVE OF LEARNING.
TAKE THE BIG APPLE; AND
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
FOSTERING A LOVE OF LEARNING.
DAY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
DAY.
>> Reporter: THE CLEVELAND MAN
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
CONVICTED OF HOLDING CAPTIVE AND
>> Reporter: THE CLEVELAND MAN
RAPING THREE WOMEN OVER A DECADE
CONVICTED OF HOLDING CAPTIVE AND
ARIEL CASTRO HAD BEGUN SERVING A
LIFE SENTENCE ON AUGUST 1.
OHIO PRISON OFFICIALS SAID THE
53-YEAR-OLD HANGED HIMSELF WITH
A BED SHEET.
HIS THREE VICTIMS DECLINED
COMMENT, BUT FORMER NEIGHBORS
SAID CASTRO AVOIDED FACING HIS
CRIMES.
>> I WAS JUST ASTOBBISHED.
I THOUGHT HE WOULD BE IN PRISON
FOR A LONG TIME AND FIND OUT THE
TRUTH OF WHAT HE DID SOMETHING
LIKE THIS AND CARRY IT ON FOR 10
YEARS.
>> THEY MADE A DEAL SO HE COULD
SPEND THE REST OF HIS LIFE IN
JAIL.
HE COULDN'T EVEN LAST 10 YEARS,
AS LONG AS HE HELD THESE GIRLS.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A COWARDLY
ACTION THAT HE CHOSE TO END HIS
LIFE.
>> Reporter: PRISON OFFICIALS
SAID CASTRO WAS IN PROTECTIVE
CUSTODY BUT NOT ON SUICIDE
WATCH.
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS WERE TO
CHECK ON HIM EVERY 30 MINUTES.
THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION CALLED FOR AN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH.
U.S. ARMY PRIVATE CHELSEA
MANNING HAS FORMALLY REQUESTED A
PRESIDENTIAL PARDON FOR LEAKING
THOUSANDS OF CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS TO WIKILEAKS.
THE SOLDIER, FORMERLY BRADLEY
MANNING, IS SERVING A 35-YEAR
SENTENCE AT FORT LEAVENWORTH,
KANSAS.
SHE HAS SAID SHE WANTS TO LIVE
AS A WOMAN AND RECEIVE HORMONE
THERAPY.
THE PARDON REQUEST WAS SENT TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA THROUGH THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF GOLD MINERS
WALKED OFF THE JOB OVERNIGHT AND
TODAY IN SOUTH AFRICA.
THEY HAD DEMANDED UP TO A 60%
INCREASE IN PAY BUT REPORTEDLY
LOWERED IT TO 10%.
THAT'S STILL MORE THAN THE OFFER
GOLD MINING COMPANIES HAVE MADE.
GOLD PRICES HAVE FALLEN AND
SOUTH AFRICA HAS BEEN OVERTAKEN
AS THE NUMBER ONE GOLD PRODUCER.
THE COUNTRY'S MINING INDUSTRY
HAS BEEN HIT BY SOMETIMES
VIOLENT LABOR STRIFE.
46 PEOPLE DIED LAST YEAR DURING
UNREST AT A MAJOR PLATINUM MINE.
THOMAS PEREZ WAS SWORN IN TODAY
AS U.S. SECRETARY OF LABOR.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN PRESIDED
OVER A CEREMONY AT THE LABOR
DEPARTMENT.
PEREZ VOWED TO FOCUS ON SPEEDING
UP THE PACE OF ECONOMIC
RECOVERY.
>> BOILED DOWN ON OUR ESSENCE,
THE DEPARTMENT OF LASCH IS THE
PARDETMENT OF OPPORTUNITY, AND
AS WEERG OF EMERGE FROM THE
MOST-- THE WORST REI LIFETIME, Y
TOP PRIORITY TO EXPAND
OPPORTUNITY IN A NUMBER OF
DIFFERENT WAYS.
AND, FIRST, WE MUST INVEST IN
R WOUORKFORCE.
>> Reporter: PEREZ PREVIOUSLY
LED THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S
CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION.
AUTOMAKERS IN THE U.S. POSTED
DOUBLE-DIGIT GAINS IN AUGUST,
THEIR BEST SHOWING IN AT LEAST
FIVE YEARS.
TOYOTA RACKED UP A 23% GAIN,
GENERAL MOTORS WAS UP 15%, AND
FORD AND CHRYSLER SALES ROSE
12%.
THE COMPANIES DID WELL ON BOTH
ENDS OF THEIR LINEUPS, POSTING
STRONG SALES OF PICKUP TRUCKS
AND SMALL CARS.
THE AUTO NEWS HELPED WALL STREET
RALLY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 97 POINTS TO CLOSE
JUST SHORT OF 14,931.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 36 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3649.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: WHEN FORMER
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
CONTRACTOR EDWARD SNOWDEN LEAKED
CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS TO THE
PRESS IN MAY, HE REVEALED
EXTENSIVE U.S. SPYING OPERATIONS
CARRIED OUT ON ENEMIES AND
ALLIES ALIKE.
LAST WEEK, THE "WASHINGTON POST"
PUBLISHED A DETAILED ACCOUNT OF
THE SO CALLED "BLACK BUDGET,"
MONEY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT SPENDS
ON SPY OPERATIONS.
IT WAS ALSO REVEALED THAT U.S.
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE BEEN
READING THE PERSONAL EMAILS OF
THE PRESIDENTS OF MEXICO AND
BRAZIL.
AT HIS PRESS CONFERENCE WITH THE
SWEDISH PRIME MINISTER IN
STOCKHOLM TODAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
DENIED THAT THE U.S. WAS
EAVESDROPPING.
>> I CAN GIVE ASSURANCES TO THE
PUBLICS IN EUROPE AND AROUND THE
WORLD THAT WE'RE NOT GOING
AROUND SNOOPING AT PEOPLE'S
E-MAILS OR LISTENING TO THEIR
PHONE CALLS.
WHAT WE TRY TO DO IS TO TARGET
VERY SPECIFICALLY AREAS OF
CONCERN.
AND THERE MAY BE SITUATIONS IN
WHICH WE'RE GATHERING
INFORMATION JUST BECAUSE WE CAN,
BUT THATOESN D'T HELP WITH US
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY, BUT DOES
RAISE QUESTIONS IN TERMS OF
WHETHER WE'RE TIPPING OVER INTO
BEING TOO INTRUSIVE.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE, I'M
JOINED BY CRAIG WHITLOCK OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST"-- HE'S WRITTEN
MANY STORIES BASED ON THE
SNOWDEN LEAKS; PLUS, KATE
MARTIN, DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER
FOR NATIONAL SECURITY STUDIES;
AND STEWART BAKER, FORMER
GENERAL COUNSEL AT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.
THANK YOU ALL THREE FOR BEING
WITH US.
CRAIG WHITLOCK, LET ME START
WITH YOU AND ASK YOU ABOUT WHAT
WE JUST HEARD THE PRESIDENT
COMMENTING ON.
THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL SETS OF
DISCLOSURES.
ONE SET DID HAVE TO DO WITH THE
U.S. READING THE E-MAILS OF THE
LEADERS OF THESE COUNTRIES THAT
ARE SUPPOSED TO BE ALLIES.
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT
THOSE DISCLOSURES WERE.
>> WELL, I THINK AS THE
PRESIDENT DESCRIBED IN A
BACKDOOR MANNER, THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY AND OTHER U.S.
SPY AGENCIES CONDUCT
SURVEILLANCE ON A PRETTY
ASTOUNDING SCALE WORLDWIDE, AND
SOME OF THESE EMBARRASSING PARTS
OF IT ARE STARTING TO COME TO
LIGHT, INCLUDING COMMUNICATIONS,
E-MAILS, PHONE CALLS INVOLVING
THE LEADERSHIP OF COUNTRIES THAT
ARE OUR PARTNERS AND ALLIES.
AND I THINK THESE COUNTRIES
MAYBE SUSPECTED THIS SORT OF
THING WAS GOING ON, BUT WITH A
WINK AND A NOD, THEY WOULDN'T
INQUIRE ABOUT IT.
NOW IT'S COMING TO LIGHT, AND
IT'S EMBARRASSING.
>> Woodruff: WHEN THE
PRESIDENT SAYS IT'S NOT
HAPPENING, HOW DO YOU SQUARE
THAT?
>> WELL, HE DIDN'T SAY IT'S NOT
HAPPENING.
HE SAID SOMETIMES WE GATHER UP
IN OUR SURVEILLANCE THINGS THAT
MAYBE WE WEREN'T TARGETING, BUT,
YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TO BE-- YOU
HAVE TO LISTEN TO HIM AGAIN.
HE DIDN'T DENY THAT IT WAS
HAPPENING.
HE JUST SAID MAYBE IT WASN'T
INTENTIONAL.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S ANOTHER
SET OF DISCLOSURES, IN FACT YOU
WROTE ABOUT THIS TODAY IN THE
"WASHINGTON POST," AND THAT IS
THE STORY ABOUT AL QAEDA TRYING
FOR SEVERAL YEARS NOW TO DISABLE
AMERICAN DRONES.
GIVE US-- GIVE US THAT STORY IN
A NUTSHELL.
>> YEAH, THIS WAS ANOTHER
REVELATION IN SOME OF THE
DOCUMENTS THAT SNOWDEN GAVE TO
US, WHICH WAS THAT U.S. SPY
AGENCIES FOR SOME TIME HAD BEEN
MONITORINGPMENT EFFORTS TO SHOOT
DOWN OR JAM OR EVEN HIJACK
DRONES WHICH, OF COURSE, HAVE
BEEN THE BANE OF THEIR
EXISTENCE.
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO DO
THAT YET, BUT THERE IS EVIDENCE
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO MOUNT SOME
ROUTE ROOUDIMENTRY ELECTRONIC
WARFARE TO TRY TO DEFEND
THEMSELVES.
AND IT'S PRETTY STRIKING THE
DEGREE AND ENERGY WHICH THEY PUT
INTO THAT EFFORT.
>> Woodruff: THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
ABLE TO DO IT SO FAR, AS FAR AS
WE KNOW.
>> NOT SO FAR AS WE KNOW, BUT
THERE ARE VULNERABILITIES IN HOW
THESE DRONES FLY, AND YOU CAN
SEE WHY THEY WOULD TRY AND
TARGET THAT.
>> Woodruff: THERE HAVE BEEN A
NUMBER OF DISCLOSURES, BUT THE
OTHER MAJOR ONE ONE THAT YOUR
NEWSPAPER, THE "WASHINGTON
POST," REPORTED LAST WEEK, WAS
THE SO-CALLED BLACK BUDGET, THE
ACTUAL AMOUNT OF MONEY-- WHAT IS
IT $52 BILLION-- BEING SPENT
EVERY YEAR ON INTELLIGENCE
GATHERING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, AND THE
GOVERNMENT TOTS CREDIT WOULD SAY
EACH YEAR THIS IS HOW MUCH WE
SPEND ON THE BLACK BUDGET.
THEY WOULD GIVE ONE NUMBER AND
THIS IS IT.
WHAT THESE DOCUMENTS THAT
SNOWDEN PROVIDED IS HERE IS WHAT
OUR PRIORITIES ARE, HERE'S WHAT
THE DIFFERENT AGENCIES, THE FACT
THAT THE C.I.A. GETS ABOUT 30%
OF THAT.
MUCH MORE THAN THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY DID.
AND THE DETAILS ON THEIR
PRIORITIES IS WHAT THEY WERE
SPENDING IT ON ALL HAD BEEN
SECRET FOR YEARS.
SO THIS DOCUMENT, 200 PAGES
ALMOST, REALLY OUTLINES TO
CONGRESS WHAT THIS MONEY IS
BEING SPENT OWHAT PARTS OF THE
WORLD WHAT, KINDS OF
INTELLIGENCE GOING TOERING, AND
THAT HAD ALL BEEN SECRET FOR
PRETTY MUCH EVER.
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF DETAILS
IN THERE.
KATE MARTIN, STEWART BAKER, LET
ME BRING THE TWO OF YOU INTO
THIS CONVERSATION.
FIRST, STEWART BAKER, WHAT ABOUT
THIS BLACK BUDGET?
IS THIS INFORMATION THAT SHOULD
BE IN THE PUBLIC REALM?
>> NO, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES.
EVEN THE-- YOU KNOW, 95% OF IT
WAS WITHHELD BY THE "POST" WHICH
WAS PERSUADED THAT IT WAS TOO
DANGEROUS TO RELEASE, AND EVEN
THE THINGS THEY RELEASED TELL
THE SYRIANS AND THE IRANIANS AND
AL QAEDA WHAT WE BEEN THEM, AND
MORE IMPORTANTLY WHAT, THEY HAVE
SUCCESSFULLY HIDDEN FROM US.
THAT TELLS THEM WHAT'S WORKING
AND WHAT'S NOT.
IT'S GOING TO SET US BACK.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE SAYING
IT-- IT'S DONE DAMAGE, IT WILL
DO DAMAGE?
>> YES.
I THINK THE FACT THAT IT DOES
DAMAGE WITHOUT REVEALING ANY
SCANDALS -- I DIDN'T SEE ANY
SCANDALS IN THE "POST"
COVERAGE-- TELLS US SOMETHING
ABOUT SNOWDEN.
HE DIDN'T RELEASE THIS AS A
WHISTLEBLOWER BECAUSE OF A
SCANDAL.
HE RELEASED IT, AS FAR AS I CAN
TELL, TO DO AS MUCH DAMAGE TO
THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
AS HE COULD DO.
>> Woodruff: KATE MARTIN, HOW
DO YOU SEE THIS IN TERMS OF
DAMAGE OR NOT?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK IT'S AT
ALL CLEAR HOW MUCH DAMAGE THERE
WILL BE FROM THE "POST'S"
DISCLOSURES ABOUT WHAT WAS IN
THE DOCUMENT.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, FOR
EXAMPLE, IN ITS DEFENSE OF THE
SYRIAN ACTION HAS TALKED ABOUT
INTERCEPTING SYRIAN MILITARY
OFFICERS TALKING TO EACH OTHER.
SO THAT'S NOT A SECRET.
AND WHEN I READ THE STORY ABOUT
THE BLACK BUDGET, IT'S NOT CLEAR
HOW MUCH OF THAT IS ACTUALLY A
SECRET FROM OUR ADVERSARIES.
I THINK WHAT IS A SECRET AND
WHAT WE NEED MORE OF IS IS THE
QUESTION OF HOW MUCH MONEY ARE
WE SPENDING ON THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY?
HOW ARE WE SPENDING IT-- NOT THE
DETAILS.
NOT WHO ARE WE PAYING OFF.
AND WHETHER OR NOT IT'S
EFFECTIVE.
AND THAT'S A HARD BALANCE TO
STRIKE.
HOW DO YOU END UP WITH A PUBLIC
DISCUSSION ABOUT THAT.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
MORE INFORMATION NEEDS TO BE
OUT, NOT LESS.
>> MORE INFORMATION THAN HAD
BEEN RELEASED BY THE
ADMINISTRATION DOES NEED TO BE
OUT, AND I THINK ONE OF THE
CONTEXTS FOR THE SNOWDEN
DISCLOSURES IS THAT THERE'S BEEN
TOO MUCH SECRECY, AND NOW
THERE'S TOO MUCH DISCLOSURE BY
SOMEBODY WHO WASN'T AUTHORIZED
TO DISCLOSE AND HADN'T ANY BASIS
FOR DECIDING WHAT TO DISCLOSE.
>> Woodruff: STEWART BAKER,
WHAT ABOUT ANOTHER SET OF
DISCLOSURE WE WERE DISCUSSING,
SPYING OR EAVESDROPPING ON
PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS OF
LEADERS OF OTHER COUNTRIES WHO
ARE SPOZZED TO BE AMERICAN
ALLIES.
DAMAGING OR NOT?
>> IT IS DAMAGING IN THE SHORT
RUN BECAUSE IT IS FOCUSING
ATTENTION ON SNAG IS USUALLY
UNDERSTOOD BY EVERYONE BUT NOT
TALKED ABOUT.
THE FACT IS OUR ALLIES ALL SPY
ON US.
IT'S JUST PART OF INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS.
BUT NO ONE LIEKDZ OF LIKES TO
SEE IT AND BE REMINDED OF IT IN
SUCH A DRAMATIC WAY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
TODAY'S DISCLOSURE IN THE
"WASHINGTON POST" AGAIN ABOUT
AL QAEDA TRYING FOR SEVERAL
YEARS TO DISABLE U.S. DRONES.
>> I'M HOPING THEY CAN PERSUADE
THEM THAT IF EIGHT OF THEM GO
OUT INTO A FIELD AND ALL TURN ON
THEIR CELL PHONES AT ONCE, THAT
THAT MIGHT WORK.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
>> BECAUSE WE'LL TARGET THEM
PARTICULARLY EASY THEN.
NO, I THINK THAT'S A FOOL'S
ERRAND FOR THEM.
THAT'S MY GUESS.
IT'S NOT GOING TO WORK--
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU DON'T SEE
THAT AS PARTICULARLY DAMAGING,
IS MY QUESTION.
>> ONLY IN SORT OF BIPLAY.
THAT IS TO SAY, IT MIGHT TELL
AL QAEDA WHICH OF THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS HAVE BEEN
INTERCEPTED BECAUSE THEY'LL SAY,
"YEAR, I REMEMBER SAYING THAT."
SO SOMETHING I WAS-- THAT WAS IN
THE ROOM WHEN I SAID THAT IS A
SOURCE FOR U.S. INTELLIGENCE.
>> Woodruff: KATE MARTIN, WHAT
ABOUT THESE OTHER TWO ELEMENTS?
HOW DAMAGING OR NOT?
>> WELL, IT'S HARD TO SAY AS AN
OUTSIDER.
ON THE OTHER HAND WHEN I READ
THE STORY BY MR. WHITLOCK ABOUT
WHAT AL QAEDA IS TRYING TO DO
WITH REGARD TO OUR DRONES
TLOOKED TO ME LIKE LOTS OF THAT
WAS ALREADY IN THE PUBLIC
DOMAIN.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THE
GOVERNMENT HASN'T GOTTEN ITS
HANDS AROUND IS IN THE NEW
INTERNET GLOBA GLOBALIZED AGE, S
VERY HARD TO KEEP INFORMATION
LOCKED UP.
THEY DON'T HAVE VERY GOOD
SYSTEMS, IT LOOKS LIKE, FOR
KEEPING IT LOCKED UP.
BUT IT'S OUT THERE ANYWAY.
AND THE PROBLEM AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF IT IS WE NEED TO
HAVE A DEMOCRATIC DEBATE AND
UNDERSTANDING ABOUT WHAT OUR
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IS DOING
AND WHETHER OR NOT IT'S DOING IT
EFFECTIVELY.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU'RE SAYING
THIS MAKES THAT MORE POSSIBLE.
CRAIG WHITLOCK, BACK TO YOU, THE
"POST" MADE IT VERY CLEAR YOU
WERE NOT DISCLOSING EVERYTHING
YOU KNEW, EVERYTHING YOU WERE
GIVEN BY SNOWDEN.
HOW DO YOU MAKE THAT DECISION?
WHERE DO YOU DRAWT LINE?
>> EACH LINE-- EACH STORY IS A
DIN LINE.
IN GENERAL, WE DON'T DISCLOSE
THINGS THAT WOULD BRING ANY--
PUT ANYONE IN PERSONAL DANGER.
WE WOULDN'T DISCLOSURE THINGS
THAT MIGHT JEOPARDIZE MILITARY
SYSTEMS, PRETTY OBVIOUS SECRETS
LIKE THAT.
THINGS LIKE THE BUDGET, IT'S A
LITTLE MORE DIFFICULT.
THESE ARE NUMBERS.
THIS IS POLICY MATTERS.
IT'S SOMETHING THE GOVERNMENT
HAS KEPT SECRET FOR A LONG TIME.
WE FELT FELT PRETTY STRONGLY
THAT'S SOMETHING, AS KATE SAID,
THE PUBLIC DESERVES TO HAVE A
DEBATE ABOUT.
OPERATIONAL DETAILS, WE WOULDN'T
DISCLOSE THAT, BUT SOMETIMES
THAT INFORMATION IS TWINNED
TOGETHER, AND YOU HAVE TO SORT
OF FIGURE OUT HOW TO SEPARATE IT
OUT.
IT'S NOT AN EASY PROCESS AND
IT'S ONE WE'RE CAREFUL ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: CLEARLY AN
ONGOING DISCUSSION.
WE THANK YOU ALL THREE, CRAIG
WHITLOCK, KATE MARTIN, STEWART
BAKER, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, WE CONTINUE OUR
OCCASIONAL LOOK AT AGING AND THE
CHALLENGES OF LONG-TERM CARE.
TONIGHT, HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTS ON A PUSH TO MAKE NEW
YORK CITY MORE LIVABLE IN LATER
YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S 9:30 IN THE
MORNING IN EAST HARLEM, NEW YORK
CITY, AND THE THOMAS JEFFERSON
POOL IS SPRINGING TO LIFE.
>> TAKE THE PLUNGE!
>> Sreenivasan: SEVERAL DOZEN
SENIORS HAVE COME TO KE TTAHE
PLUNGE, AND TAKE PART IN THE
POOL'S SENIOR SWIM HOURS.
72-YEAR-OLD MARIA PACHECO, WHO
TAKES ATTENDANCE, COMES THREE
TIMES A WEEK.
>> PEOPLE SOCIALIZE.
BEING AROUND PEOPLE THEIR OWN
AGE, I SHOULD SAY YOU ARE NOT
SELF-CONSCIOUS OF WHO'S LOOKING.
HERE, NOBODY'S COMPARING YOU TO
ANYONE ELSE, SO YOU CAN RELAX.
>> 1, 2, 3, 4!
>> Sreenivasan: THE JEFFERSON
POOL WAS THE FIRST TO OFFER THE
SENIOR SWIM HOURS.
NOW, THERE ARE 15, WITH MORE
THAN 1,000 SENIORS
PARTICIPATING.
IT'S PACHECO'S THIRD SUMMER HERE
AT JEFFERSON.
IT HELPS KEEP HER DAYS BUSY.
SO, YOU'RE VOLUNTEERING, YOU ARE
TEACHING SENIORS, YOU ARE TAKING
SWIM CLASSES.
YOU ARE PRETTY ACTIVE.
>> I DON'T WANT TO GET OLD, AND
THIS DOES IT FOR YOU-- BEING
INVOLVED, DOING EVERYTHING.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THAT'S
BECOMING EASIER TO ACCOMPLISH,
THANKS TO A RECENT INITIATIVE TO
MAKE THE CITY MORE LIVABLE FOR
SENIORS.
THEY NOW ACCOUNT FOR ROUGHLY ONE
OUT OF EVERY SIX NEW YORKERS.
AGE-FRIENDLY NEW YORK CITY WAS
LAUNCHED IN 2009.
FUNDING OF $4 MILLION HAS BEEN
PROVIDED BY THE MAYOR'S OFFICE,
THE NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL AND
THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF
MEDICINE, ALONG WITH THE
ASSISTANCE OF MANY FOUNDATION
GRANTS.
>> THE POPULATION THAT IS 65 AND
OLDER HAS JUST SURPASSED THE
POPULATION THAT IS 18 AND
YOUNGER.
>> Sreenivasan: LINDA GIBBS IS
THE CITY'S DEPUTY MAYOR FOR
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
>> WHAT WERE REALLY TRYING TO DO
IS CHANGE THE CULTURE OF THE
CITY AS A WHOLE SO THAT WE...
INSTEAD OF SEEING ELDERLY NEW
YORKERS AS A DEFICIT, AS A
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED, INSTEAD WE
SAY THE WORLD IS FUNDAMENTALLY A
CHANGING PLACE.
WE'RE LIVING LONGER, WE'RE
LIVING HEALTHIER, AND OLDER NEW
YORKERS NOW ARE HERE IN NUMBERS
THAT HAVE SURPASSED ANYTHING IN
HISTORY.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE KEY
INGREDIENT TO THE INITIATIVE IS
LISTENING TO SENIORS, ACCORDING
TO RUTH FINKELSTEIN OF THE NEW
YORK ACADEMY OF MEDICINE.
SHE LEADS THE INITIATIVES
PRIVATE SECTOR EFFORTS.
>> EVERYTHING WE DO IS GROUNDED
IN THE PERSPECTIVES AND VOICES
OF OLDER ADULTS.
THE FIRST THING THAT THEY HAVE
TO REALIZE IS, WE DON'T STAND IN
THE SHOES OF THE PEOPLE THAT
WE'RE ADDRESSING AND THAT WE
NEED FIRST AND FOREMOST TO
UNDERSTAND THE CITY THROUGH
THEIR PERSPECTIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PROGRAM IS
NOW UP AND RUNNING IN ALL FIVE
BOROUGHS INCLUDING MANHATTAN,
WHERE WE MET UP WITH ED AND
SARAH AARONS.
THEY CAN'T IMAGINE LIVING
ANYWHERE BUT HERE.
>> IT'S ALL NEAR WHAT'S
HAPPENING, WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
THE WORLD.
I CAN'T CONCEIVE OF ADJUSTING TO
ANYPLACE ELSE, AND I CAN'T
CONCEIVE OF HAVING THE
FACILITIES AND CONVENIENCES AND
THE EXCITEMENT AS OTHER PLACES.
>> THE ONLY TWO PLACES HE WOULD
LIKE TO LIVE THE REST OF HIS
LIFE IS PARIS OR NEW YORK.
( LAUGHS )
>> Sreenivasan: SARAH, WHO'S 93,
AND ED, 85, HAVE LIVED IN THE
SAMENT
FOR 50 YEARS.
SARAH NOW GETS AROUND ON A
MOTORIZED CHAIR.
WE TAGGED ALONG WITH HER WHILE
SHE RAN ERRANDS AROUND HER
NEIGHBORHOOD.
MOST OF THE CITY BUSES CAN NOW
KNEEL DOWN, TO MAKE IT EASIER
FOR SARAH TO HOP ON AND OFF.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THERE ARE
STILL CHALLENGES FOR SARAH AND
FOR THE CITY.
>> I CAN'T GET UP ON THIS SIDE.
IT'S TOO HIGH, SO I HAVE TO GO
AROUND THIS WAY AND GET INTO
TRAFFIC.
>> Sreenivasan: IT HAS SPENT
MILLIONS ON INFRASTRUCTURE
CHANGES SPREAD ACROSS MANY
AGENCIES.
BUT WHILE MORE THAN 100
INTERSECTIONS HAVE BEEN
REDESIGNED TO INCLUDE LONGER
CROSSING TIMES AND CUTS IN THE
CURB TO MAKE IT EASIER TO
NAVIGATE, THERE ARE THOUSANDS
LEFT TO MAKE THE WHOLE CITY
MORE SENIOR FRIENDLY.
BUT IT IS WORKING IN EAST
HARLEM, WHERE WE TOURED WITH
FINKELSTEIN.
IF I LOOK AT THIS WHOLE CORNER,
I'VE GOT A SHELTER, I'VE GOT A
BENCH SO A SENIOR CAN SIT, I'VE
GOT GLASS SO THEY FEEL SAFE,
I'VE GOT SHADE SO THEY DON'T
FEEL TOO HOT.
THEY'VE GOT CUTOUTS SO THEY CAN
USE THEIR RAMPS OR WALKERS.
>> HOW ARE YOU TODAY?
>> Sreenivasan: FOR SENIORS LIKE
THE AARONS, BEING ABLE TO GET
OUT AND ABOUT TO DO THEIR
ERRANDS IS ESSENTIAL TO STAYING
OUT OF ASSISTED LIVING.
>> YOU GO THERE, AND EVERYBODY
HAS WHITE HAIR.
THEY DON'T LOOK LIKE THEY ARE
ENJOYING LIFE.
TO ME, TO BE ABLE TO DO THINGS
YOURSELF RATHER THAN HAVE
SOMETHING DONE FOR YOU, YOU
KNOW, TO TRY YOUR BEST TO DO AS
MUCH FOR YOURSELF AS POSSIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: AGE-FRIENDLY
ALSO PARTNERS WITH THE PRIVATE
SECTOR TO HELP BUSINESSES BETTER
SERVE OLDER CUSTOMERS.
THE CHANGES ARE SIMPLE: BETTER
LIGHTING, A PLACE TO SIT AND
LARGER FONTS SO SENIORS CAN SEE
WHAT'S AVAILABLE.
LOCAL STORES LIKE FAIRWAY
MARKETS OFFER SHUTTLE BUSES AND
IN-STORE ASSISTANCE.
>> IF YOU ARE IN THE RETAIL
BUSINESS AND YOU WANT TO SERVE A
MEAL AND YOU WANT TO CUT HAIR
AND YOU WANT TO, YOU KNOW, OFFER
SUPPLIES, YOU KNOW, YOU'VE GOT
TO THINK ABOUT WHO IS IN THE
CITY BUYING.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN A
THOUSAND BUSINESSES HAVE NOW
SIGNED UP FOR THE PROGRAM.
>> AT HOME, YOU'RE GOING TO BE
PAYING FOR AN INTERNET SERVICE
PROVIDER.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THEIR TALKS
WITH SENIORS, THE COLLABORATION
ALSO FOUND THERE WAS AN
INCREASING TECHNOLOGY GAP.
THIS TECHNOLOGY LAB, SENIOR
PLANET, IS THE FIRST TECHNOLOGY-
THEMED CENTER FOR PEOPLE OVER 60
IN THE COUNTRY.
NEW YORK CITY IS ARGUABLY THE
MOST DIVERSE ON THE PLANET, AND
CREATING A PROGRAM THAT WAS
INCLUSIVE TO EVERYONE WAS
ESSENTIAL.
>> AFFORDABILITY IS A HUGE ISSUE
FOR OLDER ADULTS, AND IT'S NOT
ADEQUATE TO MAKE A CITY WORK
WELL FOR ONLY FOR PEOPLE WITH
MEANS
>> Sreenivasan: BUT IT'S BEEN A
CHALLENGE THAT GOES BEYOND CURB
CUTS.
THEY WANT TO FIND A WAY TO MAKE
THE CITY MORE AFFORDABLE FOR ALL
SENIORS.
>> IN NEW YORK, I HAVE TO SAY
HOUSING IS SO DIFFICULT.
WE HAVE IDEAS THAT WE HAVEN'T
YET IMPLEMENTED, BUT THE
ESSENTIAL BASIC PRICE OF REAL
ESTATE-- HOW EXPENSIVE IT IS TO
BE HOUSED IN NEW YORK-- IS A
CHALLENGE THAT I DON'T FEEL THAT
WE'VE ADDRESSED ADEQUATELY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THE NEED FOR
THESE TYPES OF CHANGES ISN'T
JUST IN NEW YORK CITY, ACCORDING
TO DR. LINDA FRIED, THE DEAN OF
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S MAILMAN
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
>> THE AGING OF THE POPULATION
IS ONE OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
HISTORIC SHIFTS IN THE HISTORY
OF THE WORLD, AND WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO SEE IS WHAT COUNTRIES
ALL OVER THE WORLD ARE SEEING,
WHICH IS THAT WE ARE LIVING
LONGER LIVES.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS SUMMER, A
DELEGATION FROM HONG KONG
VISITED TO GET TIPS ON MAKING
THEIR CITY MORE AGE-FRIENDLY.
DOZENS OF OTHER CITIES ACROSS
THE U.S. AND AROUND THE WORLD
HAVE STARTED THEIR OWN PLANS OR
USED THE CITY AS A MODEL.
ACCORDING TO DEPUTY MAYOR GIBBS,
THE REASON IT'S WORKED IN NEWEYD
ALLOCATING RESOURCES
DIFFERENTLY.
>> WHILE THERE ARE SOME
ADDITIONAL COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH
THE PROGRAM, OVERWHELMINGLY WHAT
WE ASKED AGENCIES TO DO IS THINK
ABOUT WHAT YOU ARE DOING
ALREADY, AND CAN YOU DO IT IN A
WAY THAT IS MORE AGE-SENSITIVE
SO THAT WHEN YOU DO THE
REPAVING, WHEN YOU DO THE NEW
CURBS, WHEN YOU SPEND YOUR MONEY
ON YOUR SENIOR CENTERS, WHY NOT
SPEND IT IN A DIFFERENT WAY?
AND IN THIS WAY, I THINK IS VERY
REPLICABLE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE ARE
BENEFITS THAT AREN'T LIMITED TO
JUST SENIORS.
>> THE DIRTY LITTLE SECRET ON
THIS PLANET IS THAT, FROM MY
POINT OF VIEW, ANYTHING YOU
DESIGN THAT WILL FACILITATE
ACCESS, ENGAGEMENT, SAFETY,
ENJOYMENT AND PARTICIPATION BY
OLDER PEOPLE TURNS OUT TO BE
GOOD FOR ALL AGE GROUPS.
SO YOU ARE NOT DESIGNING JUST
FOR ONE AGE GROUP, BUT YOU ARE
ENSURING THE ENGAGEMENT AND
CONTRIBUTIONS OF ALL AGE GROUPS
BY DOING THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, ON
THIS HOT DAY IN NEW YORK, THE
SENIORS ALL HERE AT THE
JEFFERSON POOL AGREE-- SO FAR,
THEY'RE IN STEP WITH ALL THE
CHANGES.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, EXPLORE A TOP
TEN LIST OF AGE-FRIENDLY CITIES
IN THE U.S.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, WITH MILLIONS
OF STUDENTS RETURNING TO CLASS
THIS WEEK, WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES ABOUT IDEAS BEING
DISCUSSED AND DEBATED IN THE
WORLD OF EDUCATION.
TONIGHT, WE TURN TO THE ROLE OF
UNIVERSITIES AND EXPLORE A
QUESTION GETTING PLENTY OF
ATTENTION AMID CONCERNS ABOUT
STUDENT DEBT: WHAT IS THE REAL
PURPOSE OF COLLEGE?
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: IF YOU WANT AN
EDUCATION, THE ODDS AREN'T WITH
YOU, JUST ONE OF MANY
PROVOCATIVE LINES FROM A NEW
BOOK EXPLORING THE CONTEMPORARY
UNIVERSITY, VERY MUCH INCLUDING
THE MOST ELITE INSTITUTIONS AND
THE LIVES OF TEACHERS AND
STUDENTS.
IT'SCALL ED "WHY TEACH:  IN
DEFENSE OF A REAL EDUCATION."
AUTHOR MARK EDMUNDSON IS A
PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND JOINS
US NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Brown: FIRST WHAT, SAY REAL
EDUCATION AND WHY DOES IT NEED
DEFENDING?
>> WELL, A REAL EDUCATION-- I'LL
OFFEND A FEW PEOPLE BY SAYING
THIS-- IS HUMANITIES BASED AND
GETTING TO KNOW YOURSELF,
FIGURING OUT WHO YOU ARE AND
WHAT YOU WANT TO DO WITH YOUR
LIFE.
>> Brown: AND THAT IS NOT WHAT
IS TAUGHT NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK A LOT OF
STUDENT COME TO SCHOOL, HAVING
BEEN PRIMED BY THEIR PARENTS AND
TEACHES TO GO INTO A BUSINESS
SCHOOL, GO INTO AN ECONOMIC
MAJOR AND SCIENCE MAJOR WHETHER
IT'S IN THEIR HEART OR NOT.
WE HAVE TO SPEAK TO THAT, IT
SEEMS TO ME, AND THAT'S WHAT I
TRY TO DO IN THE BOOK.
>> Brown: YOU WRITE MIDWAY
THROUGH THE CENTURY,
AMERICAN HIGHER EDUCATION
CHANGED.
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
ENTERED A NEW STAGE IN WHICH
THEY STOPPED BEING
INTELLECTUALLY DRIVEN AND BEGAN
TO MODEL THEMSELVESES ON
BUSINESS.
>> YES, A LOT OF TRUTH IN THAT,
I STILL THINK.
SCHOOLS HAVE BECOME MORE
CONSUMER ORIENTED -- CAN WE GIVE
YOU THE BEST KIND OF
CAN WE GIVE YOU THE BEST KIND OF
GYM?
REQUEST KWE GIVE YOU ALL THE
ENTERTAINMENT YOU NEED ON
SATURDAY AND SURRENDER THE BEST
KIND OF FOOTBALL TEAM?
BUT IN THE END YOU HAVE TO PAY
FOR IT.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DIVERSIONS
OUT THERE BUT THERE IS STILL THE
HEART OF A GOOD EDUCATION.
>> Brown: WHY HAS THAT
HAPPENED THAT IT BECAME MORE
BUSINESS ORIENTED AND WHAT DOES
THAT DO TO THE ACTUAL EXCHANGE
BETWEEN TEACHER AND STUDENT?
>> IT BECAME MORE BUSINESS
ORIENTED, BECAUSE LIKE
BUSINESSES, I THINK THE
UNIVERSITIES COMPETED FOR
STUDENTS.
AND ONE OF THE WAYS TO COMPETE
IS OFFER AS PLUSH AND EASY A
CIRCUMSTANCE AS POSSIBLE.
SO THE PROFESSORS HAVE HAD TO
STEP FORWARD AND TRY TO
UNDERLINE THOSE EXPECTATIONS OF
A CONTINUING CONSUMER
PLEASURABLE ENCOUNTER-- DO A
LITTLE BIT OF CHALLENGING.
DO A LITTLE BIT OF QUESTIONING,
DO A LITTLE BIT OF THE SOCRATIC
THING WE TRY TO DO.
>> Brown: NOT ENOUGH?
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE HOW FAR ARE
YOU PUSHING THIS?
IS IT CODDLING THE STUDENT IN
THE SENSE THAT THEY'RE NOT
CHALLENGING THEM ENOUGH BECAUSE
THEY'RE MORE LIKE CUSTOMERS
RATHER THAN STUDENT?
WHAT'S THE ARGUMENT?
>> WELL, I THINK THEY COME WITH
THOSE AL QAEDA OF EXPECTATIONS,
BUT I THINK PROFESSORS TRY TO
PUSH BACK IN THE DIRECTION OF A
MORE SERIOUS KIND OF ENGAGEMENT.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE DOING IT
SEEMS TO ME IS WE'RE TEACHING
STUDENTS VERY WELL HOW TO READ
AND INTERPRET DEMANDING AND
INTERESTING TEXTS.
BUT WE'RE NOT GOING FAR ENOUGH
IN ASKING THEM THE CRITICAL
QUESTION-- IS THIS TRUE?
HOW WOULD YOU APPLY IT TO YOUR
LIFE?
HOW WOULD YOU LIVE IT SNOUT AND
THAT'S A PLACE I THINK WE
PROFESSORS COULD DO SOME
STEPPING UP.
>> Brown: WE TALK A LOT ABOUT
A CRISIS IN THE HUMANITIES.
YOU SEEM TO THINK OF A CRISIS
WITHIN THE HUMANITIES, THAT
IT'S-- THAT THE HUMANITIES ARE
BEING SOLD THE WRONG WAY, IF
THAT'S THE RIGHT WORDARCHS WAYS
TO HUP GET A JOB OR TO HELP YOU
EYE DON'T KNOW-- DO BETTER IN
LIFE, RATHER THAN SOMETHING
ELSE.
>> RIGHT.
WELL I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
HUMANITIES CAN HELP YOU DO
BETTER IN LIFE.
YOU CAN LEARN TO READ WELL,
WRITE WELL, THINK WELL, PRESENT
YOURSELF IN AN APPEALING SORT OF
WAY.
I THINK FUNDAMENTALLY WE'RE NOT
ABOUT SUCCESS BUT WHAT WE'RE
ABOUT IS CHALLENGING AND
EXAMINING EVERY SINGLE KIND OF
SOCIALLY ACREDITTED STANDARD OUT
THERE.
IF A STUDENT STUDIES THE
HUMANITIES AND READS PLATO AND
SOCRATES HE MAY COME OUT
BELIEVING HE WANTS TO BE A
SUCCESS BUT HE MIGHT WANT COME
OUT WANTING TO LIVE A LIFE OF
POVERTY, BETTER A HAPPY KID THAN
A SLOGGING AWAY, SUCCESSFUL KID.
>> Brown: SUCCESSFUL IN
CONVENTIONAL TERMS.
THE COLLEGES SHOULDN'T BE
CONTINGENT THE KIDS-- I MEAN
WHAT, DO YOU-- YOU WANT TO
ATTRACT KIDS TO YOUR CLASS,
RIGHT?
>> SURE.
>> Brown: BUT NOT TO SAY THIS
MIGHT HELP YOU BECOME A LAWYER
OR A DOCTOR OR AN ENGINEER?
>> WHAT I'M MORE LIKELY TO SAY
IS THIS WILL HELP YOU DECIDE
WHETHER YOU WANT TO BAKE LAWYER,
A DOCTOR OR ENGINEER, AND IF YOU
DO DECIDE TO DO THAT YOU'LL BE
ALL THE MORE SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE
YOU MADE THE DECISION ON ITS
OWN, NOT IMPOSED BY THE OUTSIDE.
>> Brown: I CAN HEAR PEOPLE
SAYING IT'S A TOUGH ECONOMY.
KIDS AND PARENTS PAY A LOT OF
MONEY TO GO TO COLLEGE.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Brown: WHAT-- WHAT DO YOU
TELL PEOPLE-- WHY SHOULD THEY
NOT BE THINKING THIS HAS TO LEAD
TO SOMETHING WITH MONEY OR THE
ECONOMY IN MIND?
>> UH-HUH.
WELL, YOU KNOW, IF YOU LOOK AT
PEOPLE'S PROFESSIONAL LIVES AND
ASK THEM WHY DO THEY FAIL?
FREQUENTLY THEY FAIL BECAUSE
THEY ARE A ROUND PEG TRYING TO
SLAM THEMSELVES INTO A SQUARE
HOLE OF A PROFESSION THAT THEY
REALLY DO NOT LOVE AND ARE NOT
COMMITTED TO IF A STUDENT LEARNS
WHAT HE OR SHE REALLY VALUES AND
WANTS TO DO THE CHANCE OF
SUCCESS IS MUCH BETTER AND
THAT'S SOMETHING WE PROVIDE IN
THE HUMANITIES THAT OTHERS
DON'T.
THE THOING ADD IS STUDENTS MAY
IN THE HUMANITIES LOOK INTO THIS
IDEA OF SUCCESS AND SAY, NO, NOT
FOR ME.
I HAVE A SON WHO LIVES IN
AUSTIN, ATTACK, WORKS IN A BIKE
SHOP, AND IS WRITING A NOVEL.
I'M TREMENDOUSLY PROUD OF HIM.
HE LOOKED AT THE SUCCESS THING,
AND SO FAR HE'S SAYING, "NOT FOR
ME."
>> Brown: YOU'RE PROBABLY
GOING TO HEAR FROM PEOPLE, THIS
IS THE PRIVILEGE OF THE WELL OFF
TO BE ABLE TO CENTER THAT KIND
OF-- I DON'T KNOW-- FOUR YEARS
OF THINKING THINK AND AS YOU USE
THE WORD FROM JOHN CEETS, SOUL
MAKING.
>> I WOULD LIKE IT TO BE A
PRIVILEGE THAT EVERYBODY HAS
ACCESS TO.
WHEN WE SAY WE CAN'T AFFORD
THAT, WE CAN AFFORD 2.5 MILLION
PEOPLE IN JAIL.
WE CAN AFFORD ARMIES THAT CAN
FIGHT THREE WARS AT THE SAME
TIME.
WE CAN AFFORD PEOPLE 15
TO 0% OF THEIR TAXES BUT NOT
GIVE EVERYBODY A CHANCE AT THE
HUMANITIES?
I'D RATHER OPEN IT UP TO
EVERYBODY.
>> Brown: YOU REFER TO THE
ASTONISHING OPPORTUNITIES AT
COLLEGE.
FOR ALL THE TOUGH THINGS YOU
HAVE TO SAY YOU TALK ABOUT THE
WONDERS OF OUR UNIVERSITIES.
WHAT'S THE ADVICE?
HOW SHOULD A STUDENT TAKE
THOSE-- PARTICULARLY THOSE
STARTING RIGHT TODAY ODOR THIS
WEEK-- HOW SHOULD THEY TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THAT?
>> YOU'VE GOT TO LOOK AROUND FOR
THE TEACHER WHO IS GOING TO BE
GREAT FOR YOU.
THERE IS THIS PERIOD THEY CALL
SHOPPING PERIOD-- PROBABLY NOT
THE BEST NAME-- BUT YOU GO FROM
DLOOS CLASS, PROFESSOR TO
PROFESSOR, AND YOU SEE-- YOU
LOOK AROUND FOR SOMEBODY WHO
REALLY LIGHTS IT UP FOR YOU,
LOOKING FOR SOMEBODY WITH A CEEB
MIND, LOVE OF LEARNING, AND A
WARM HEART.
AND YOU GET THOSE THINGS
TOGETHER IN THE SAME PERSON AND
YOU FOUND SOMEBODY WHO MIGHT
ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO TEACH YOU
SOMETHING AND MAYBE YOU'LL TEACH
HIM SOMETHING, TOO.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT FOR THOSE
IN YOUR PROFESSION.
WHAT'S THE ANSWER TO YOUR
QUESTION, "WHY TEACH?"
>> IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A
MYSTERY.
THERE'S SOMETHING JUST PLAIN
WONDERFUL WITH WATCHING PEOPLE
DEVELOP, AND THE AGES BETWEEN 18
AND 22 ARE AMONG THE VERY WEST
FOR THAT.
PEOPLE COME, THEY'RE VERY
UNFORMED.
AND THEY READ AND THEY THINK AND
THEY SPEND TIME WITH THEIR
FRIENDS.
AND THEY GROW AT THIS
ASTRONOMICAL RATE AND IT'S JUST
WONDERFUL TO BE AROUND AND SEE
IT HAPPEN.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT,UN WHAT,
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE THIS
CONVERSATION ONLINE.
I WANT TO ASK YOU YOUR OWN
EXPERIENCE FOR BECOME A
PROFESSOR.
FOR NOW, MARK EDMUNDSON, AUTHOR
OF "WHY TEACH?
IN DEFENSE OF A REAL EDUCATION."
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS IN SWEDEN,
APPEALING FOR WORLD SUPPORT TO
PUNISH SYRIA FOR USING CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
IN WASHINGTON, A SENATE
COMMITTEE APPROVED A RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF FORCE.
AND THE CLEVELAND MAN CONVICTED
OF HOLDING THREE WOMEN CAPTIVE
OVER THE COURSE OF A DECADE WAS
FOUND DEAD IN HIS PRISON CELL
OVERNIGHT.
AUTHORITIES SAID ARIEL CASTRO
HANGED HIMSELF.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, WHY BEING
FAMOUS IS A LOT MORE LUCRATIVE
THAN BEING GOOD.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: ON "MAKING SENSE,"
THE POWER OF A HOUSEHOLD NAME.
WE LOOKED INTO THE SALES OF THE
BOOK "THE CUCKOO'S CALLING"
BEFORE AND AFTER ITS AUTHOR,
ROBERT GALBRAITH, WAS EXPOSED AS
J.K. ROWLING.
AND WHAT MAKES SARIN DEADLY?
ON "SCIENCE WEDNESDAY," WE
EXAMINE THE POTENCY OF POISONOUS
GAS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
BEFORE WE GO, A REMINDER.
WE HAVE GOOD NEWS IF YOU'RE USED
TO WATCHING THE PBS NEWSHOUR
MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
STARTING THIS WKENDEE, YOU CAN
FIND US SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS,
AS WELL.
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND PREMIERES
THIS SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7.
JOIN HARI SREENIVASAN FOR A 30-
MINUTE LOOK AT THE TOP NEWS
STORIES WITH THE SAME IN-DEPTH,
INDEPENDENT COVERAGE YOU'VE COME
TO EXPECT FROM THE NEWSHOUR.
THAT'S PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
PREMIERING RIGHT HERE THIS
SATURDAY.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.